# 1.3. Testing Principles

A number of testing principles offering general guidelines applicable to all testing have been suggested over the years. This syllabus describes seven such principles.

**1. Testing shows the presence, not the absence of defects**.
* Testing can show that *defects* are present in the *test object*, but cannot prove that there are no defects (Buxton 1970).
* Testing reduces the probability of defects remaining undiscovered in the *test object*, but even if no defects are found, testing cannot prove *test object* correctness.

**2. Exhaustive testing is impossible**.
* Testing everything is not feasible except in trivial cases (Manna 1978).
* Rather than attempting to test exhaustively,
  + *test techniques* (see chapter 4),
  + test case prioritization (see section 5.1.5),
  + and *risk-based testing* (see section 5.2), should be used to focus test efforts.

**3. Early testing saves time and money**.
* *Defects* that are removed early in the process will not cause subsequent *defects* in derived work products.
* The cost of quality will be reduced since fewer *failures* will occur later in the SDLC (Boehm 1981).
* To find *defects* early, both *static testing* (see chapter 3) and *dynamic testing* (see chapter 4) should be started as early as possible.

**4. Defects cluster together**.
* A small number of system components usually contain most of the defects discovered or are responsible for most of the operational failures (Enders 1975).
  + This phenomenon is an illustration of the Pareto principle.
* Predicted defect clusters, and actual defect clusters observed during testing or in operation, are an important input for *risk-based testing* (see section 5.2).

**5. Tests wear out**.
* If the same tests are repeated many times, they become increasingly ineffective in detecting new *defects* (Beizer 1990).
* To overcome this effect, existing tests and *test data* may need to be modified, and new tests may need to be written.
* However, in some cases, repeating the same tests can have a beneficial outcome, e.g., *in automated regression testing* (see section 2.2.3).

**6. Testing is context dependent**.
* There is no single universally applicable approach to testing. Testing is done differently in different contexts (Kaner 2011).

**7. Absence-of-defects fallacy**.
* It is a fallacy (i.e., a misconception) to expect that software verification will ensure the success of a system.
  + Thoroughly testing all the specified requirements and fixing all the defects found could still produce a system   - that does not fulfill the users’ needs and expectations,
  - that does not help in achieving the customer’s business goals, and
  - that is inferior compared to other competing systems.
* In addition to *verification*, *validation* should also be carried out (Boehm 1981).
