# 3.1 Static Testing Basics

***static testing*** def.
* the software under test **does not need to be executed**
* code, process specification, system architecture specification or other work products are **evaluated**
  + through **manual examination** (eg. *reviews*)
  + with the help of **a tool** (eg. *static analysis*)
* ***test objectives*** include:
  + **improving quality**,
  + **detecting *defects***,
  + **assessing characteristics like**
    - readability,
    - completeness,
    - correctness,
    - testability,
    - consistency
* *static testing* can be applied for **both *verification* and *validation***

testers, business representatives and developers **work together**
* **during**:
  + example mappings,
  + collaborative user story writing,
  + backlog refinement sessions
* **to ensure** that user stories and related **work products meet defined criteria**
  + eg. the Definition of Ready (see section 5.1.3)
* ***review* techniques** can be applied
  + **to ensure user stories** are
    - **complete**,
    - **understandable**,
    - include **testable *acceptance criteria***
* **testers**
  + explore, challenge and help improve the proposed user stories by asking the right questions

*static analysis* **can identify problems prior to *dynamic testing***
* while **often requiring less effort** since
  + **no *test cases*** are required,
  + ***static analysis* tools** are typically used (see chapter 6)
    - eg. spelling checkers
    - eg. readability tools

*static analysis* is **often incorporated into CI frameworks** (see section 2.1.4)

while largely used to detect specific code *defects*,
* *static analysis* is **also used to evaluate maintainability and security**

## 3.1.1 Work Products Examinable by Static Testing

**almost any work product** can be examined using *static testing*, eg.
* requirement specification documents,
* source code,
* test plans,
* *test cases*,
* product backlog items,
* *test charters*,
* project documentation,
* contracts
* models

**any work product** that can be read and understood can be the **subject of a *review***
* **however**, for *static analysis*, work products **need a structure against which they can be checked**
  + eg. models, code or text with a formal syntax

work products that are **not appropriate for *static testing*** include those
* that are **difficult to interpret** by human beings
* that **should not be analyzed by tools**
  + eg. 3rd party executable code due to legal reasons

## 3.1.2 Value of Static Testing

***static testing* can**
* **detect *defects* in the earliest phases** of the SDLC,
  + fulfilling the principle of early testing (see section 1.3)
* **identify *defects* which cannot be detected by** *dynamic testing*, eg.
  + unreachable code,
  + design patterns not implemented as desired,
  + *defects* in non-executable work products

*static testing* provides the **ability to evaluate the quality of**, and to **build confidence** in work products
* by **verifying the documented requirements**,
  + stakeholders can also make sure that these requirements describe their actual needs
* since *static testing* can be performed early in the SDLC,
  + **a shared understanding** can be created among the involved stakeholders
* **communication will also be improved** between the involved stakeholders
  + so it is recommended to involve a wide variety of stakeholders in *static testing*

the **overall project costs are usually much lower** than when no *reviews* are performed
* **even though** *reviews* can be costly to implement,
* **because** less time & effort needs to be spent on fixing *defects* later in the project

**code *defects* can be detected** using *static analysis* **more efficiently** than in *dynamic testing*
* usually resulting in both fewer code *defects* and a lower overall development effort

## 3.1.3 Differences between Static Testing and Dynamic Testing

*static testing* and *dynamic testing* practices **complement each other**
* they have **similar objectives**,
  + eg. supporting the detection of *defects* in work products (see section 1.1.1),
* but there are also **some differences**, eg.
  + *static* and *dynamic testing* (with analysis of *failures*) can both lead to the detection of *defects*,
    - however there are **some *defect* types that can only be found by either** *static* or *dynamic testing*
  + ***static testing* finds *defects* directly**,
    - while *dynamic testing* causes *failures* from which the associated *defects* are determined through subsequent analysis
  + ***static testing* may more easily detect *defects*** that lay on paths through the code
    - that are rarely executed or hard to reach using *dynamic testing*
  + ***static testing* can be applied to non-executable** work products,
    - while *dynamic testing* can only be applied to executable work products
  + ***static testing* can be used to measure quality** characteristics
    - **that are not dependent on executing code** (eg. maintainability),
  + **while *dynamic testing*** can be used to measure quality characteristics
    - that are dependent on executing code (eg. performance efficiency)

typical ***defects* that are easier and/or cheaper to find** through *static testing* include:
* ***defects* in requirements**, eg.
  + inconsistencies,
  + ambiguities,
  + contradictions,
  + omissions,
  + inaccuracies,
  + duplications
* **design *defects***, eg.
  + inefficient database structures,
  + poor modularization
* **certain types of coding *defects***, eg.
  + variables with undefined values,
  + undeclared variables,
  + unreachable or duplicated code,
  + excessive code complexity
* **deviations from standards**,
  + eg. lack of adherence to naming conventions in coding standards
* **incorrect interface specifications**, eg.
  + mismatched number,
  + type
  + or order of parameters
* **specific types of security vulnerabilities**
  + eg. buffer overflows
* **gaps or inaccuracies in *test basis* coverage**
  + eg. missing tests for an *acceptance criterion*



